The other day I talked to you about the left side
power that we have by which vedas are
In Sahaja yoga language. We call it as mahakali power and this power gives
Us the left side which is our subconscious
And his subconscious which gives us the conditioning
through our subconscious only
We become conditioned now how does our subconscious takes the condition?
in between the thought there's a very little space which we can call as the silence as
The present but the thought that comes to you rises and falls off
Stops for a while and again another thought starts and fall so the first thought that rises
We can see the rising of the thought not the falling of it, and when it falls it goes into the subconscious
Another one also rises it rises and again it falls it goes into the subconscious that's how our subconscious starts building up
How do the thoughts come into us?
Thought comes to us
because human beings
when they look at the thing
They have a method of projecting their mind into
if you have got a
Blackboard I can tell you how it happens. Can you lose wipe it off?
We wanted to talk about this subject, but rather complicated, but we have to somehow other face it sometimes in life
He started the video in my darkest then rolls out with the flat surface
Rising like that
enya
Now this one is going down
This chair, Sora if I got a knock attached to it. I see it just as a
But before realization to me. This is a pleasure
This is my position
this is my room and
this one is a
Emblem of some sort of my greatness, whatever it is
All these ideas come to me, then I give you a little sister that this picked up sir conditioning factor
outside
So the use measures this this of course is us
Immediately I say what I?
Really won so are you obliging? God redeem yourself?
for us understand
What is this when I come out it is?
But then position starts moving. It's really that we started with only according cover
for example Indian God my family
to
understand stress
Now pertaining to our chicken also we use the same method that
I think first starts with I think
Whatever, you think is not God
because if you could think
Then he is not God
This is the absolute logic
He is too great that
You could think about?
You can only become one with it. It would be like a little bird trying to fathom the ocean
Now when we start over ck
We come here with our conditionings
and the subconscious
Today, I am talking about conscious not so much a fever but called subconscious because I started talking on subconscious
It's still there and the worst part of the subconscious is the worst of all is
That if the personality is a oriented then for him the subconscious is the most important
Such a person becomes a very obstinate Seeker very obstinate
He will start judging a person according to one's subconscious for example
I don't like I will become judgmental. I don't like such a person no why oh I just don't like
Then the ego comes in to explain it saying that oh bust be something wrong with that person which I've felt through my spirit I
Mean spirit you have not reached as it. No, not it. We must accept
Sergeyeva is not a make-believe
It is absolutely
Down-To-Earth truth
You cannot believe that oh, I am spiritually all right yes. Yes. I've got it. I felt very much better. I
Felt very much matter is not the way to look at at your seeking
And when the ego becomes in charge of that
subconscious, then seeking is very difficult
because he goes start deciding everything you start judging everything with ego and
Subconscious is such a dubious thing very dubious
Now I would say freud did work on the subconscious area
He did work on the subconscious. Yes. Do you want something?
Yeah, it's all right all right
It is a very dubious
thing within us
say somebody's mother has got green eyes the
Boy will be fascinated by cleaners
supposing the mother is Modern and
has got a bald head, but users say
Great right, and if she doesn't change her wig much
Then he may like a particular type of her way
But if she said changes too much he may like a belated woman, you can't say
So the subconscious works out with such
Transistor things
But to get it fixed also
Is a difficult thing and when it is fixed to remove it is even more difficult
Some people become routine us in their nature absolutely routine as they've walked like blind
They get up early in the morning
They take their tea the newspaper has to be there if newspaper is not there
they
Cannot do anything the whole day newspaper. They must read I
Mean it's good that we don't read newspapers
But he can't live without it. So he must have his newspaper before him
He takes his newspaper and the counted number of sips he'll take of the tea then he'll go into the bathroom with
counted number of steps
We'll take the bar. The same way absolutely the nail cutter here. This there there there. He just walks like this
Absolutely joyless lifeless life he leads
It's a routine
Another person is a topsy-Turvy
both the Extremes
Come from our subconscious. If person is very routine us and meticulous. He could be a very bad a day
He's a very unpopular person. He gives us a headache because he's used to a ridiculous thing
He makes everybody meticulous. He wants everybody to be meticulous
If somebody is not meticulous then he gets after the life of that person
And I have seen some people if they say it's such a person coming in the morning
They run away and have a bad thing India
Miserly ness also comes from such habits all such headaches come from subconscious
But to them because they have their ego they said no, I am not miserly. I'm economical
You go finds out words. You see to make something ugly look very nice and
This is how we start off looking after our subconscious and nourishing. It nicely it's coming up
We do not want to face ourselves
Even before realization he can face herself that why are we so abnormal?
Why everyone calls me a boy?
No, one likes my company I
Have to assert myself too much to be in the company of others there is no magnetism left in me. What's the matter?
Why?
Why that people do not want me? Why they want to get rid of me?
But here is something oh
Good for nothing. I am such a higher personality. I am such as such I am a person of taste and this and that and
Such people can end up with dogs or maybe some cats. I don't know they some of them end up with even snakes
not with human beings
The subconscious has so many problems which freud has brought
Forward and said that this is the subconscious subconscious, but he was such a limited man, and how big person
that he himself suffered from all the
Patients who came to him and he got all their diseases
Really he become a case of complete Materia, Medica
so whatever he has said has
Definitely helped us to see how many varieties of subconscious attacks. We can have but at the same time
He has given us no solutions
And he has made us very one-sided that is do not allow yourself to be conditioned
Do not allow yourself to be conditioned
Now when we say like that our subconscious
May not be very much more
But the other side is even worse
The other side is a terrible
absolutely terrorizing
Thing called Mr.. Ego
if that develops
Then there is no end to our nonsense
Then you become nothing, but I like a stick. You know anybody comes there. He knows you are that
So what to do is the problem the dilemma?
Before people is what to do if you get rid of your subconscious?
Then you will get your supra-conscious me in the sense that you start planning for the future
Then what's wrong? What's wrong the family system breaks out the
Sinfulness is accepted. There is no righteousness in life
Nobody can talk of righteousness
There's no
worry about
What you are doing to the society or to yourself? What's wrong? If I am doing like that?
What's wrong goes on like so the other side of its?
Now the first side subconscious gives you
the deadliest
disease called cancer
cancer comes from the subconscious area
Not from supra-Conscious but from supra-Conscious. You development diseases like heart paralysis
diabetes
Cancer is developed because your subconscious is
overloaded
It will work out through ego doesn't matter
means
you
Create an emergency within yourself if you create an emergency within your physical mental emotional any kind of an emergency
Means you are loading your subconscious for example. I go on rubbing this finger
All my life is this there are people funny funny. Type. We have there are some called chains
You know I don't know if you have heard about them
in their religion
They are not supposed to use any razor. I don't know why they are specially against razors. You know absolutely
So you have to pluck your hair or from all over with your own hand
They go on plucking their hair because they are not supposed to cut it you cannot use razors can imagine
that extreme is the truth, so
They're gone plucking like this all the time
And even if I have lost all their hair still there will be going on like that
This can develop an emergency in the different muscles in two different hats
Anything can develop an emergency like as you suggested last time that if you put a metal in the body it develops an emergency
Just if you introduce a metal as soon as an emergency is created the subconscious starts
Wriggling
pumping expanding
When the subconscious starts expanding then we move to the left hand side the movement to the left hand side
gives us
very
dangerous
position
Because in the left hand side is the collective subconscious all that is dead
Since your creation since your creation
I'm again saying is all that
all the kinds of vegetables that have gone out of circulation of evolution all the kinds of
matter that have gone out of circulation
all the kinds of
You can say insects animals and the last human beings
all that is dead exist in the
Within ourselves within our being everything exists within us. We don't have to go outside
So we get exposed to that?
very dangerous area of subconscious
when it expands you may not be
consciously
Conditioning yourself for example people thought it is too much conditioning to wear
The Gray suit or say the tails coats
It may be too much, so they said all right let us take to another style of life, so they said oh
This is all junk
Let's dress up in such a way
that
We look like nothing on Earth
All right, this is an emergence
Because you look so funny. You are to be attacked
simple thing is
say London is a place where you must walk with an umbrella actually play your hockey and also football with an umbrella and
a person who walks without an umbrella
during rain in London
Has to get cold he may say oh, I don't care you see. I am not formal
That's how the dress develops. That's how the attitudes develop
Now he says I'm not going to be conditioned. No. I'm not going to get in Amri life
It is raining doesn't matter. I am not going to have raincoat or anything any appendages like that you see
I'll just walk in my swimsuit
He'll really swim through I tell it
You just can't do it. You are a human being you are not a hippopotamus, but
They want to be hippopotamus when they are human beings
Because of he this is what it is either. We want to be monkeys
Or we want to be tigers?
Or we want to be liars?
But we don't want to be human beings that we are
Because of Mr.. Ego, which teaches you that you should be something different
These things create an emergency
and
these emergencies
Lead us into areas which are very dangerous
Like I would say there's a fire supposing in the other who all right. It's an emergency created all right?
what happens that when the fire is there we get so frightened we enter into another place and
From fire to frying pan we may land up into something else
so to be normal
To be in the Centre as buddha said to lead a normal life
And not to be unique and abnormal
Sometimes they do it just to create a nuisance value that people should be able to see your faces
That's why some people walk with red hair
All Sorts of things people do be normal in the center
And to do that, you don't have to do anything you
Are born a normal person lead a normal life? I mean if you are abnormally handicapped or anything
That's a different point but even normal people behave like that like this. You're grouchy and all those things that you do
I mean you have got hands feet everything. Thank God for that
After sometime you find a person without one name what I was in robbery
begging on the street with a violin in the hand
all these
subconscious problems come to us and
Stick to us because of her ego if you do not identify ourselves with this
Subconscious and say no no nothing this is not important it comes from very small ideas
Like I can tell you about Indians very well because I have seen it very clearly they're very particular about
Washing their hands having their baths
They must have a bath every day. Can you believe it anyone in England I?
Am not getting so I can tell you
And then take a bath in the morning, and then go to their work, they don't feel all right without that
They don't feel all right you see this is the point
And they died of lung cancer in this country
Day in and day out day in and day out for years together. Oh, I never catch cold nothing happens to me
I am very happy and suddenly you find they get a very galloping type of a cancer
So we have to know that we live in a nature in a country in a place
We have to adjust our body to that. We must respect that we must respect that nature and not to fight it
Like we are modern people except that we live with these machines and things like that
What's the use of growing your hair like a primitive man? You cannot go you cannot exist as you exist in
Dense forests of Amazon cut it
we create such emergencies for our by doing these extra special things that that tells upon our
subconscious, and we become very much prone to cancer I
Mean I would say that
People can develop cancer from a small thing like you have got those people who announce
His excellency such-And-such coming
He may find after sometimes he becomes his excellency in the throat
It is possible. Oh
We're doing it all the time doing the same thing
Shaking hands now. I mean sometimes really we shake hands with six hundred and
Seventy eighty people Iii do that. I think you know what's about to happen just
On shaking hands with you
Change it a little bit
Now it has been on from I don't know charge the third or whatever it was
It's still on its own in our country same way in England and all these you see habit formations like that that
everybody must
conform to that subconscious I
Mean sometimes for a change let us say like this sometimes she can sometimes walk about no
Is the same form on and on and on?
But I am not against addition by any chance for that. I must say
The traditions which are real traditions are
always helpful
But traditions. Which are just mechanical for example paying respect to elders
paying respect to a saint
Now these days of course you can get saints by the reasons see if you pay five pounds you can get a seat
Standing there to take over some more money from you, so you can get saint Sensei inside Saints, but still
All such traditions
Which makes you sublime a higher personality?
They are helpful to life
when I say that
Subconscious is not to be nourished
and
Is to be looked after that I do not mean by any chance that you give up your good tradition
so there are some bad things and there are some good things that we need and
The good things we no need are source of Zara's are called as good
conditionings
There is no word in English like soup, but shoe means the one which is good for your spirit
So the samskaras are the conditionings that are good for you
Outright rejection of the complete subconscious is as stupid as outright
Cancellation of your supra-conscious you have to balance you have to keep a balanced life between the two
Now when they break traditions they break it so much so hard that the whole set society muskrat of them
Can't you do it little bit?
Must you crack down
everything and
That is how another kind of emergency settles in in Society?
now today
Which is the emergency which is the worst of all for?
Which you are not aware of I think you people are not aware in the west
Which is the worst of all emergency that is settling in in?
Every human being is a sense of insecurity
Your media's they blast you every morning
You start feeling? What's happening shucks?
Anywhere you go?
You find oh, God this disaster that disaster. They never talk of
Anything that will give you peace?
Tranquility that will console you make you happy you go home
Your wife chorus with you with such an emergency what oh?
The tap is out of gear, and you never did this you didn't do that. You don't know that
it could reverse you were salmon wife means husband husband means wife but
the emergencies we create for others do we understand that we are creating cancer for others do we a
Man marries a woman just see this is very subtle one has to understand
And then he says oh
What's wrong?
I'm just friendly with someone like that he flirts with other women he has a key for something the woman develops insecurity within herself and
she develops a
horrible disease called as
breast cancer
The insecurities that develop within us if they are carried too far by us you see by people who think oh
God how insecure I am I had to overcome that
They end up their lives in the pubs and things like that and think that they can get rid of their problems are even worse
much more vulnerable
Those who try to escape the truth and go into subconscious more like you see here?
There's an emergency if somebody runs into this room their safety, but supposing you run into scotland yard
What will happen?
it's like that then emergency develops if you
try to run
You might land up into very very serious trouble
face it
If your husband husband is misbehaving get after him
Tell him this won't work out you have to be a faithful man
Nothing doing and you see to that woman that she gets up you were to three stops doesn't matter she deserves it
She has no business to Meddle with your married life
If the wife feels like that slap her nicely she has no business to be infertile to solve the problem
but do not be a
Person, oh, I don't want to say anything let it be now. He's in love
Blow off such loves and things which creates problems
Just whoa and finish up all these nonsensical things these creates
horrible emergencies
for men and women the worst of all for children
We need peace human beings have to live in peace. They are beautifully made they are made
With such care that delicate beings
They're not to be hurt
They're not to be tortured
They are not to be trouble
Try to be kind to them if the parents are not kind to the children
If a person does not have his parents in childhood. He is a volcanic personality
You have to be very very kind to other people and nice to them
Do not create emergencies in their lives
If you create emergencies in their lives you
Are responsible?
for
their troubles and their diseases
One must realize that human being is the most delicate thing that God has created so far
when
You really love human beings as a whole
You must realize this
And you'll be amazed. How we handle each other the way we shout
The way we scream at others
There's no delicacy of handling of other people, and that's why as I said
that if you are unpopular for your meticulous nature
or for your over a
30 or
For your ego, you must know that you are creating an emergency for others
Even might give you a satisfaction. Oh
I've done a ride. That's what I have done him right? It's good for him. Let him have it
But there is God above us who will judge us?
But when we talk of the subconscious you see we suddenly go into extreme sub that goes
Something human beings are always to be saved don't go to myself supposing you fall this side
You fall or you go that side and fall you fall isn't
is it that when you come this side you do not fall on that side you fall so both the sides if you move
Go to Extremes you fall
So both the sides must be saved, and that's why I must warn you before I
Stop this lecture that when we go too much to the subconscious
And we worry too much about the subconscious, then what happens. Oh
Don't say anything let him do what he likes
He is doing anything. I should say anything. Why should we be harsh to them?
and
We should not hurt
After all whatever is Dean doing. He's all right
Do not hurt him even a murderer comes before you oh, please please don't say anything to him now. He's not a murderer this
This is going to another side
This is called a sky Valley in Sanskrit in Which
People give up their weapons like Arjuna did
Arjuna was a disciple of Shri, Krishna
Just like my disciples here, you know
He was also there, and when the war came, I mean he was a great warrior till the war started
When the war started he said oh, Krishna
What's the use of killing these they are my brothers my sisters my teacher my revered?
Elders, how can I kill them just a piece of land I?
cannot kill them he gets into that subconscious mode and
On this base was based Krishna's philosophy
Those who can read?
Through the Lines can see that he tried to establish
That this kind of a non-violence of a pure poor person of a week is no non-violence
It is covetous is Cavalia
even
the non-violence of Arjuna is
Cowardice
For he said who is killed?
Your spirit is never killed
but for the religious
establishment
religious doesn't mean I mean the
Wars of Roses and all that I mean the religion within yourself
for standing up for the truth of any cause
is
the war of DhArma is the war of
Sustainers that sustains the society so you have to rise against all such things you know to fight it
because if you fight for that
You get your Moksha
And if you live people will call it victorious
It is a very balancing factor
Like many people tell me I mean I have told me many a times also that mother why do you criticize the fake gurus?
What should I do should I garland them?
These are horrible devils who were born before also and were killed by goddess
And today I see them so clearly and should I go and say oh you great people
What should I do?
Krishna said that whenever there is
Fall-off sustainers yada yada. Hi Dharmasya Glanir Bhavati, but when it goes down the righteousness
falls off
Then V-notch others come to hell to destroy
these horrible negative forces
But it truong, Iassogna to save and to sustain
The Saints some baba me you gave me I come in every age in human form
It was christ
Who on the cross said that forgive them?
Father for they do not know what they're doing
And the same one took a hunter and hit these people hard when they were making money in the name of God
We never see the balancing factor in life. That's typical of human beings
If they go on to one side, they'll go on two months if they go on to another either
they'll become Hitler's or they'll become some sort of I
Don't know what to call them some sort of people who are who have no backbone nothing?
damages
You are human beings and a human being has to be in the center
and
This is what always I try to tell you that when I talk about subconscious I
Want you to have the balancing thing and this comes to you through wisdom of sahaja yoga
Because when you get your realization you get the vibrations flowing in the hand
And you can find out when you lose your vibrations because the time you are losing your balance
This cool this cool breeze starts flowing through you is manifesting the holy ghost within you
This is the brahma Shakti and that such as so you are going to -?
But sahaja Yogi's special in England are very intelligent people
Especially London there even extra intelligent
They make a politics out of sahaja yoga
It's nice to be in politics
So that they claim oh, we are communists. We are this we are that
you